over a year ago I remember doing an
interview with vegan cheetah back when
his channel and quite a different
character from what has today in which
he asked me if the kind of drama and
conflict that we see within veganism if
it was going to be a temporary feature
if we were all didn't move on things
were going to change if the debate in
discourse in veganism was going to get
more profound or what I think I think he
asked a question on lines of or are we
all just a bunch of shallow Fame [ __ ]
looking to create conflict on the
internet for no quick reset it was a
good question it really fought that's
not joking you can check the playlist
section of this channel you'll find a
playlist to some of my old conversations
with cheetah and you can see how much
his focus has shifted had changed as the
years have gone by but I do have to ask
myself that question when I look at
example such as the conflict between
gary france aione and dr. Melanie joy so
if you don't know I've done book reviews
on Gary France aione I have a again you
can check the playlist section there's a
playlist of just book reviews of a
conversation over an hour along with
Maude vegan where we both read and
discussed what we believe is Gary
pensiones final book talking about vegan
politics and PETA activism Gary
Franchione a is one of the most
influential people in veganism over the
last 50 years he's basically responsible
for what is referred to as the
abolitionist approach although of course
there are other theorists and leaders in
that in that area dr. Melanie joy is
associated with the word carnism and she
has a different approach to both the
sale psychology of veganism itself the
psychology of how to present veganism to
meat eaters and ultimately how to
organize an activist movement which she
has done a great deal of the movement I
associated with her about three years
ago has now failed and folded she's
still very active as an individual but I
remember I signed up and joined Melanie
Joy's organization back when she had a
formal organization you could join and
volunteer to be a part of and that's
gone that's all disappeared now so
that's an interesting example we have to
learn from both successes and failures
within veganism but yeah that was those
less than four years ago
that I remember what Melanie joy had
going on and she was asking people to
sign up to do different kinds of tasks
you know if you had a background in
journalism you could sign through this
you go to background and something else
you do that and it all it all faded
it'll collapse so my basic point here is
introducing top of this video
both gary france aione and Melanie joy
dr. Melanie joy believes they are people
who have contributed a lot they put a
lot of time and energy and they've
influenced a lot of people and they've
written books expressing their own
theoretical and political views within
veganism in the future the movement and
they hate each other they hate each
other that's why I open this but I give
a vegan she'd have this question you
know are people just Fame [ __ ] or what
now I do not think Gary francy own a
thinks of himself as a Fame [ __ ] I
don't think he consciously imagines he's
doing anything insincere or indirect
when he writes these kind of bizarre
screens against Melanie joy her approach
so I'm looking here at a screenshot
where he's attacking her use of the word
invisibility and this is this is really
surreal if you guys have seen what
Melanie joy says I'm you know she talks
about the invisibility of meat-eating in
the sense that we're all surrounded by
meat products every day we're surrounded
by pieces of steak and lamb and hot dogs
that we see in the shop but we
incredibly rarely see actual cows or
actual pigs we rarely see the reality of
the slaughterhouses and the factories
that produce this stuff there's a sense
in which you know you sit down at a
restaurant and there's one vegan option
on the menu and 25 meat eating options
there's a sense in which the culture of
meat eating is so pervasive than the
industries that produce and procure and
provide finished meat products are so
ubiquitous that the reality of where
meat comes from and what it is becomes
invisible to people living through it so
they're very easy to sympathize with
statement or position that she has and
most of us weren't born vegan most of us
grew up eating meat and became vegan so
we all know where she's coming from we
all know it's like a field away
moreover
even if you were born vegan you probably
have friends and relatives and in
talking to them and seeing how they live
you see how real this invisibility is
they don't think of milk in terms of
where it comes from or how its made that
that's invisible to them now yes it's a
self-selected blindness it's willing
ignorance not making excuses for it but
there are people who pick up and buy
dairy products with no awareness of the
ethical implications or ecological
consequences or what have you and to
them from their perspective within a
carnist
culture with a majority meat-eating
culture within a majority excuse making
culture it's invisible
hi everybody gary Franchione for the
evolutionist approach there is a theory
called carnism which says that the
ideology of animal exploitation is
invisible it's not something we're aware
of or conditioned by if it were but it's
not something we're really conscious of
and it's invisible and so when we engage
in animal exploitation we're
participating in this invisible ideology
we don't really sort of understand what
we're doing because the all of the
assumptions and the ideology that that
causes us to engage in animal
exploitation is not something we're
aware because I'm visible to us now I
think that is complete nonsense the
reason why most people exploit animals
they participate and they the ideology
of animal exploitation is very explicit
it's not invisible at all it's called
animal welfare it's the animal welfare
ideologies but you can see here in this
screen shot Gary Franzen are just
freaking out and I found a bunch of
different articles and sources on
Francey on his website where he's
freaking out and frothing at the mouth
and going on about how inexcusable and
immoral this is and he views everyone
that way I saw a hilarious video I
couldn't find it on YouTube I searched
for it of Gary Francine a ranting at a
vegan anti-fur protester to Fran Sione
it is not even acceptable to be a vegan
who protests against fur anyone who
protests against the use of fur is
sexist and evil and an enemy of his
movement and they're not a true
abolitionist
the true vegan because you've regards
anti-fur protests as so evil just just
to digress on that point there's a guy
called earthling Edie I have one video
critique of some of his philosophical
statements rubs I sympathize there from
getting this channel I also say positive
things but whatever thing that has been
doing for veganism earthling ed he says
simply you know veganism is one thing
and the anti-fur movement is another and
if you've got the time and energy you
can do both which I think solves that
problem but not for Fran Sione I've seen
video of him ranting about how anyone
who protests against fur is sexist and
is part of the oppression and
exploitation of women and all this
terrible stuff it is very clear that
Fran Sione feels that anybody who is not
with him is against him and even when he
looks at dr. Melanie joy lifelong vegan
activist that's how he feels it's very
obvious this is about my interpretation
I would have you so coming back to the
leg motif that open this video you know
is this a feature of veganism forever
our vegan activist and vegan politically
leaders even these ostensibly
respectable ones like france aione and
they'll enjoy are they just a bunch of
drama creating shameful furs or is
something else at work here is this is
something something's going to change
are we going to see an unending series
of one leader tearing up the other
leaders I think they all need each other
you know I mean even will Tuttle there's
a really funny video about that from
tofu goddess will Tuttle hates Gary
Yourofsky I think Gary Yourofsky hates
everyone ever you know they all hate
each other the level of infighting and
mutual contempt and mutual disrespect is
unbelievable
even compared to other movements and
especially when you put this in direct
contrast with the over-the-top claims
about you know compassion and loving the
planet and loving all mankind and loving
on a know loving cockroaches see vegans
seriously stating that they wouldn't
kill a cockroach and wouldn't hurt a fly
but at the same time this is the level
of hostility out in the book
anyway my answer to vegan cheetah at
that time and my answer now is the same
look at two very different genres of
music hip hop and jazz hip hop music
from day one to the current date in 2017
hip hop it has always been a feature of
the genre to have this kind of conflict
this kind of mutual insult mutual
intimidation which will conflict between
artists it is a feature of the genre of
hip hop music to have those kinds of
conflicts whereas in jazz music it
wasn't and isn't you know I'm sure once
in a while there are a jazz musicians
who hate each other their jazz musicians
who have conflicts and disputes but it
did not become a defining part of the
genre I think the question we have to
ask ourselves in veganism in 2017
looking toward the future is veganism
going to be more like jazz music or is
it going to be more like hip-hop and
this is not just a question that applies
to people like freelee and durianrider
or people like me on YouTube it is a
question that really applies to the most
respectable faces that we have appearing
on the TV news like gary france aione
and dr. melanie joy and gary yourofsky
that's that as respectable as it gets in
veganism it's hard it was poppy for you
to respect they may not think that what
they're doing is hip-hop but it's a lot
closer to hip-hop than it is to jazz
music I banish yen
[Music]
ah bah Luo Yin